Architecture changes. (#146)
Pelagicore/software-factory: docs/chapters/architecture/DLT/diagnostics-log-and-tracing.rst

Besides dlt-daemon, GENIVI offers `dlt-viewer`_ which is another software that allows a client to connect to the dlt-daemon and receive logs remotely.

PELUX has decided to integrate GENIVIs' DLT component which also works with dlt-viewer.

Requirements overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Log and Trace
"""""""""""""
DLT logs are mostly for OEM-s(developers, testers). They allow them to view the technical information and get an overview of the processes. During the development, it is entirely up to the developers to decide what to store on the DLT logs.

On a PELUX image, the dlt-daemon package is already integrated and enabled.

In order to get DLT logs remotely, dlt-viewer is required as well.

Basic usage
"""""""""""
The dlt-daemon runs by default when the Pelux image boots up. dlt-daemon usage can be found on https://github.com/GENIVI/dlt-daemon.  Cheat-sheets and further documentation can be found on https://github.com/GENIVI/dlt-daemon/docs (Although the docs here are outdated, they can be very helpful giving insight into architecture).

dlt-daemon stores offline-log database  on /tmp file system.

> In order to view the logs via dlt-viewer, you need to install it on your machine first. Instructions are available on `the repository`_. Once dlt-viewer is built, its binaries are found on build/bin/dlt-viewer and the GUI can be launched via command ./dlt-viewer .  You will need to find the IP address of the host, finding the IP address depends on the hardware where pelux is running.

Reviewer: You are not consistent in the way you name "PELUX". I personally prefer writing it with capital letters only but l23 you used "PELUX", l29 you used "Pelux" and here l33 you use "pelux".

Quality Goals
"""""""""""""
*Reliability*
Reliability is a key quality for DLT. Developers and testers rely on the logs provided by dlt-daemon to find errors and understand behavior of applications. If the logs will be faulty, there will be a very big struggle to debug the error, or understand the behavior.

Stakeholders
^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Software Developers
* QA Engineers

Constraints
-----------
GENIVI's dlt-daemon stores an offline log database on in-RAM file system /tmp/dlt_offlinetrace_20120101_005302.dlt . The size limits for the log files should be adjusted at HU startup based on amount of RAM available. E.g. a Premium HU with 16GB of RAM can use 200MB of offline storage. On the other hand, 4GB of ram uses 50MB of offline storage or less.

Context
-------
Business Context
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
DLT logs are automotive industry standard. Industry expects any automotive software to support it.

Solution Strategy
-----------------

> Since PELUX is a part of open source community, we use a component developed by GENIVI.

Reviewer: part of _the_ open source community?
I don't think your sentence is grammatically correct

Below are the open source software that we use from the DLT component.

* `GENIVI dlt-daemon`_
* `GENIVI dlt-viewer`_

Since GENIVI dlt-daemon supports only C applications, another third party software is required to support C++. Currently, PELUX uses `ivi-logging`_. However, wrapper discussions are still ongoing. We currently have three options which are compared under Design Decisions.

Building blocks view
--------------------

Level 1
^^^^^^^
.. image:: graphs/block-view-lvl1.png

Level 2 
^^^^^^^
.. image:: graphs/block-view-lvl2.png

> Runtime view

Reviewer: There is no runtime view in that section

Author: Thats because it didnt seem to be necessary. But i guess it would make sense to delete this entire section? Not sure tho..

------------
Depending on what the developers decide to log and trace, the logs can be viewed via dlt-viewer.

Optionally, Blue PiraT 2 can be configured to work with dlt-daemon, through which multiple gigabytes of logs can be stored.

> Design decisions

Reviewer: This section is called "decisions" but you don't actually talk about any decision. You list a couple of solutions along with their pros and cons but don't actually draw conclusions

Author: I added a Design Conclusion parts regarding this one. The issue is that this topic is still in the discussion and hasnt been decided on the change yet. The other decision, to use ivi-logging, was taken 1-2 years ago.

----------------

C++ wrapper
^^^^^^^^^^^

`ivi-logging`_
""""""""""""""
This component was initially developed by Pelagicore but is not actively maintained at this time.

Pros:

* It exposes all functions of libdlt.so library.
* C++11

Cons:

* It is a header-based library. Each translation unit (\*.o) will have around 20Kb of code segment overhead. Each binary file will be bloated and heavily flooded with inline code.
* Increases compilation time of every translation unit where it is used.

> * Nobody is familiar with it

Reviewer: Mhhh... Where did you get that "Design decisions" part from?
"Nobody is familiar with it" doesn't sound like the kind of things we want in the software factory. Or maybe it should be expressed differently.

`log4cplus`_
""""""""""""
A popular logging library that inherits log4java principles and log formats

Pros:

* It is very popular. Many c++ developers already familiar with it.
* Well maintained.

> * Do not have dependencies.

Reviewer: Does not?

* Can write to many sinks (console, socket, syslog)
* DLT sink can be easily added
* C++11

Cons:

* A full set of DLT features will NOT be available to app developer.
* All primitive types (int32, float, double) will be converted to string logs.
* LogLevel setup from DLTAppender side is not easy.  LogLevel is set on Logger level, not on Appender level.
* DLT AppID and ContexID registration will require additional functions that breaks standard API

`CAmDltWrapper (GenIVI AudioManager)`_
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> GenIVI AudioManager is a C++ program and it has it's own wrapper around DLT logging system.

Reviewer: Simimlarly to what I said about PELUX/Pelux/pelux. I'm confused by this "GenIVI" now.

Reviewer: it has _its_ own

Pros:

> * Already part of GenIVI. GenIVI developers has experience with it.

Reviewer: developers _have_

* Provide precise control over DLT message construction (supports float,int,short etc.. in DLT format)

Cons:

> * It was designed for AudioManager, not really used outside it.

Reviewer: outside of it

* No documentation
* No streaming operator support

Glossary 
--------

+--------+------------------------------+
| Term   |Definition                    |
+========+==============================+
| DLT    | Diagnostics Log and Tracing  |
+--------+------------------------------+

> | HU	 | Head Unit                    |											   

Reviewer: This line is not aligned with the rest of the table. From what I could remember, this should at least trigger a warning from sphinx.

Author: It should've triggered a warning, but it actually didnt. I used a "tab" on it by accident.

+--------+------------------------------+

> | ECU    | Electronic Control unit      |

Reviewer: Capital letter for the U

+--------+------------------------------+

> | TCP    | Transmission Control Protocol|

Reviewer: I think there should be a space after "Transmission Control Protocol" otherwise it is interepreted as an align right. I'm not entirely sure about it but it's also good to be consistent with spacing.

+--------+------------------------------+

> | NTG    | Neue Telematik Generation    |

Reviewer: This acronym is never used in the document and I don't think this is relevant anyway.

+--------+------------------------------+

> | GUI    | Graphic user interface       |

Reviewer: Mhh, do we really have to explain what a GUI is?

:orphan:

.. _diagnostics-log-and-tracing:

Diagnostics Log and Tracing
===========================

Introduction and goals
----------------------

> The Diagnostic, Log and Tracing (DLT) daemon provides a log and trace interface in ECUs. The standardized protocol for logging inside ECU is specified in the AUTOSAR 4.0 DLT, and GENIVI has an open source project `dlt-daemon`_ that follows those standards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Diagnostic, Log and Tracing (DLT) daemon (dlt-daemon) provides a log and trace interface in ECUs. The standardized protocol for logging inside ECU is specified in the AUTOSAR 4.0 DLT, and GENIVI has an open source project `dlt-daemon`_ that follows those standards.
```

Besides dlt-daemon, GENIVI offers `dlt-viewer`_ which is another software that allows a client to connect to the dlt-daemon and receive logs remotely.

> PELUX has decided to integrate GENIVIs' DLT component which also works with dlt-viewer.

Reviewer 2: I'm missing a reason why. I think the way our arch documentation should be phrased should include a "why" when we have chosen a certain solution, even if it was the only solution we were looking at. Most likely we still have a reason why?

Author: Would it be okay to say ' Since PELUX is GENIVI compliant, we have decided to integrate its DLT component which also works with dlt-viewer.`

Requirements overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Log and Trace
"""""""""""""
DLT logs are targeted at OEM-s (developers, testers), since they show technical information and give an overview of the processes. During the development, it is entirely up to the developers to decide what to store on the DLT logs.

On a PELUX image, the dlt-daemon package is already integrated and enabled.

In order to get DLT logs remotely, `dlt-viewer`_ is required.

Basic usage
"""""""""""

> The dlt-daemon runs by default when the PELUX image boots up. dlt-daemon usage can be found on https://github.com/GENIVI/dlt-daemon.  Cheat-sheets and further documentation can be found on https://github.com/GENIVI/dlt-daemon/tree/master/doc (Although the documentation here is outdated, it can be very helpful giving insight into architecture).

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to make "dlt-daemon" and "dlt-viewer" a certain format/font so that it's obvious they are names of components?

Reviewer 2: Actually I think there are instructions somewhere on how we write this. Somewhere on the top level of swf or something. I think component may be italic.

> dlt-daemon stores offline-log database  on /tmp file system.

Reviewer 2: an extra " " on this line.

> dlt-daemon stores offline-log database  on /tmp file system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dlt-daemon stores offline-log database on /tmp file system.
```

**Dynamic Log adjustments**
The amount of logs, especially in Trace mode, can be overwhelming. Applications that produce DLT logs should have the functionality of enabling/disabling logs or adjusting the level of log outputs. Ideally each logging call should dynamically check boolean condition and just do nothing if logs are dynamically disabled. It will reduce log traffic inside the system and improve performance in general.

GENIVI DLT provides a back channel from dlt-viewer to applications that generate DLT logs. The user can precisely change log levels for each application individually from the dlt-viewer UI. The user request will reach each application and disable logs in the place they are actually produced.

Quality Goals
"""""""""""""
*Reliability*
Reliability is a key quality for DLT. Developers and testers rely on the logs provided by dlt-daemon to find errors and understand behavior of applications. If the logs will be faulty, there will be a very big struggle to debug the error, or understand the behavior.

Stakeholders
^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Software Developers
* QA Engineers

Constraints
-----------

> GENIVI's dlt-daemon stores an offline log database on in-RAM file system /tmp/dlt_offlinetrace_20120101_005302.dlt . The size limits for the log files should be adjusted at HU startup based on amount of RAM available. E.g. a Premium HU with 16GB of RAM can use 200MB of offline storage. On the other hand, 4GB of ram uses 50MB of offline storage or less.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GENIVI's dlt-daemon stores an offline log database on in-RAM file system /tmp/dlt_offlinetrace_20120101_005302.dlt. The size limits for the log files should be adjusted at HU startup based on amount of RAM available. E.g. a Premium HU with 16GB of RAM can use 200MB of offline storage. On the other hand, 4GB of ram uses 50MB of offline storage or less.
```

Context
-------
Business Context
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
DLT logs are automotive industry standard. Industry expects any automotive software to support it.

Solution Strategy
-----------------

> Since PELUX is a part of the open source community, we use a component developed by GENIVI.

Reviewer 2: This and the "Business context" is what I feel I am missing in the introduction. Some mention of choosing GENIVI since it is OSS and developed for the Automotive industry of something.

Below are the open source software that we use from the DLT component.

* `GENIVI dlt-daemon`_
* `GENIVI dlt-viewer`_

Since GENIVI dlt-daemon supports only C applications, another third party software is required to support C++. Currently, PELUX uses `ivi-logging`_. However, wrapper discussions are still ongoing. We currently have three options which are compared under Design Decisions.

Building blocks view
--------------------

Level 1
^^^^^^^
.. image:: graphs/block-view-lvl1.png

Level 2 
^^^^^^^
.. image:: graphs/block-view-lvl2.png

Runtime view
------------
Depending on what the developers decide to log and trace, the logs can be viewed via dlt-viewer.

Optionally, Blue PiraT 2 can be configured to work with dlt-daemon, through which multiple gigabytes of logs can be stored.

Design decisions
----------------

C++ wrapper
^^^^^^^^^^^

`ivi-logging`_
""""""""""""""

> This component was initially developed by Pelagicore but is not actively maintained at this time.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it can be mentioned that this is the solution currently in use, but that we are looking into other solution for [reasons]. And in that case move that text to the top level under "Design decisions" or possibly not include that section at all. In this text we should only mention what solution we currently have and the reasoning behind it.

:orphan:

.. _diagnostics-log-and-tracing:

Diagnostics Log and Tracing
===========================

Introduction and goals
----------------------
The Diagnostic, Log and Tracing (DLT) daemon provides a log and trace interface in ECUs. The standardized protocol for logging inside ECU is specified in the AUTOSAR 4.0 DLT, and GENIVI has an open source project `dlt-daemon`_ that follows those standards.

Besides dlt-daemon, GENIVI offers `dlt-viewer`_ which is another software that allows a client to connect to the dlt-daemon and receive logs remotely.

PELUX has decided to integrate GENIVIs' DLT component which also works with dlt-viewer.

Requirements overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Log and Trace
"""""""""""""

> DLT logs are mostly for OEM-s(developers, testers). They allow them to view the technical information and get an overview of the processes. During the development, it is entirely up to the developers to decide what to store on the DLT logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
... These logs are for viewing the technical information and getting an overview of the processes. ...
```

> DLT logs are mostly for OEM-s(developers, testers). They allow them to view the technical information and get an overview of the processes. During the development, it is entirely up to the developers to decide what to store on the DLT logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DLT logs are targeted at OEM-s (developers, testers), since they show technical information and give an overview of the processes. During the development, it is entirely up to the developers to decide what to store on the DLT logs.
```

On a PELUX image, the dlt-daemon package is already integrated and enabled.

> In order to get DLT logs remotely, dlt-viewer is required as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to get DLT logs remotely, dlt-viewer is required.
```

Reviewer 2: This should not be a single "floating" sentence in my opinion. It should either link to or explain more about what dlt-viewer is.

Basic usage
"""""""""""

> The dlt-daemon runs by default when the PELUX image boots up. dlt-daemon usage can be found on https://github.com/GENIVI/dlt-daemon.  Cheat-sheets and further documentation can be found on https://github.com/GENIVI/dlt-daemon/docs (Although the docs here are outdated, they can be very helpful giving insight into architecture).

Reviewer 2: The "docs" link is broken. the dir doesn't have 's' at the end.
